Good morning, Northridge.
How are you guys?
Good to see you.
My name is Pete, one of the pastors here at Northridge, and we're just honored that you guys are here.
We're gonna welcome those of you that are watching online.
We're so glad you guys are with us.
And I know that there were some problems getting in today, and some of you were stuck in traffic for a while, and I know that's such a pain, but isn't that such a cool problem to have when there's traffic coming to church?
I love that.
I love that because I was already here in the building and not sitting in it, but I still think it's kind of cool.
And just always reminded of how amazing God is and the cool things he's doing.
And I know a lot of people are talking about the million meals, and I can't tell you anything about it, but Pastor Brad's going to be here next week to talk to you all about the results of the million meals campaign that we've been up to.
And thousands of you out there volunteering that have done such an amazing job with that.
We're just so grateful for that.
So we've been in this series called In With The New that we started all the way back the very first week of the year.
And the series idea was this, that everybody goes into a new year and they want that new year to be better than the last year, right?
We all had those hopes, dreams, wishes, desires going into this year that 2024 is gonna be better than 2023.
But the reality is 2024 is gonna be a whole lot like 2023 for you.
If there's not some things that you change up in your life, right?
Just expecting that somehow life is gonna create all these different paths for you and all these things are gonna fall onto place is not realistic.
So the reality is we've been looking at where are the things that we need to add?
Where are the new things we need to implement into our life?
And maybe what are some of the old things that we need to let go of in order to make this year different than the other years?
To make this a year that we actually step into becoming who we were created to become?
And one of the things that I know without a shadow of a doubt that every single person here is going to need at some point over the course of 2024, and a bunch of you have already needed this in the first two months, and that is courage, right?
There's so many moments in our life that require courage, that require us to push through our fear and allow God to work in our life to leave that comfort zone and step into whatever it is he has for us.
But it's easy to talk about courage.
It's one thing to have to actually develop it.
And I'm gonna look at a story today.
I think there are obviously hundreds of stories in scripture about courage.
I mean, there's hardly a chapter or a book that doesn't talk in some way about courage.
But there's a moment in a main character's life, the main character being Moses, where we can really dissect like what's going on in his mind in that moment that is keeping him from developing courage.
And by seeing that, I think what you're going to see is he's got two thoughts, right?
And these two thoughts are kind of paralyzing him.
And my guess is that there is a bunch of you who have these same two thoughts in this very moment that are keeping you from stepping into your moment.
So let me set it up for you real quick and then we'll look at the passage, right?
So Moses at this point in his life is about 80 years old, which is a fact that I think we need to point out because whenever we talk about courage, I think some people think that courage is like a young person's game, right?
Like courage is something you need when you're taking risk when you're 20 or 30, right?
But then as you get older, you just kind of put it on cruise control and you're just kind of gonna drift through life and you're not taking those risks anymore.
You're not stepping out in faith anymore.
You know, you kind of made it.
You let the generations
behind you do that, but what we see throughout scripture is God could care less about age.
He could care less about your physical appearance.
He could actually even care less about some of the gifts and the abilities that you have, even though he's the one that's given them to you, because there's a lot more about him and what he's doing in and through your life.
So I don't want you to hit this news button.
If you're in some of the later chapters of your life, I believe that in every chapter God is calling you to trust him, to step out in faith and to exhibit courage.
So Moses is around 80.
He's in the wilderness where he's been for four decades.
The reason he's there is because he's kind of on the run or is hiding.
So what had happened was Moses throughout his life got a front row seat to the injustices that had been pushed on his people, the Hebrews, the Israelites, God's people, right?
By the Egyptians.
He had seen this over and over.
One day he sees an Egyptian mistreating a Hebrew.
He steps into that moment.
And in rage, he ends up killing the Egyptian.
So that's like even back then, a no-no.
And so he's afraid.
He runs.
He has shame.
He has guilt.
And he's hiding.
And all of a sudden, one day, he's out just doing what it is he does.
He's a shepherd, right?
He's just monitoring his business.
And he's walking through the wilderness.
And there is a bush.
And the bush is on fire.
Now, if you grew up in church, you've heard the story a hundred times, right?
The bush is on fire, but the bush is not burning up.
And then there's a voice that comes out of the bush, and it's God, right?
And I have no idea what God's voice sounds like.
I just imagine that, like, if you audibly heard the voice of God, you would know in that moment that it's God, right?
Like, you don't think it's your cousin.
or a sibling that's like, whoa, that, yup, that's God for sure, because there's a bush and it's on fire, but it's not burning up.
Like there's something that's going on here.
This is not normal.
And so God, out of nowhere, introduces himself to Moses through this bush that's on fire, but it's not burning up.
And in this moment, God kind of interrupts Moses' pity party, and he doesn't interrupt and communicate
to Moses, that he's a screw up.
He doesn't remind him of his past, doesn't remind him of his inadequacies, none of that.
In this moment, God introduces himself and he says, Moses, I have a challenge for you.
I have a calling on your life that I want you to step into.
And I want you to do the most important task of going to the Hebrews, announcing to them that I'm sending you, that I'm setting them free, and I want you to go and confront Pharaoh, the most powerful man in the region, and demand that he let my people go.
And that's where we picked this story up with Moses' response right after God who's speaking to him through a bush that's on fire that's not burning up.
This was his response to God.
Moses answered, what if they do not believe me?
Or they don't listen to me and they say, the Lord did not appear to you.
Then the Lord said to him, what is that in your hand?
A staff, he replied.
The Lord said, throw it on the ground.
Let's just do it on the ground.
And it became a snake.
And he ran from it, which I just think that's funny.
Like I'd like to see that whole saint.
Like there's a bush that's on fire and God is talking to you, but you ran from the snake.
Okay.
So then the Lord said to him, reach out your hand and take it by the tail.
That's when I'd be out.
I'd be, I don't care if it's a bush that's on fire that's not burning up.
I'm not picking up a snake by the tail.
I'm not doing it.
But Moses reaches out and it took hold of the snake and it turned back into a staff in his hand.
This said the Lord is so that they may believe that the Lord, the God of their fathers, the God of Abraham, the God of Isaac and the God of Jacob has appeared to you.
So that's the scene, right?
That's what's going on.
And what you're going to see in Moses's life is a couple thoughts that he has.
Now, there's a lot to unpack there, but I want to point out these two thoughts.
And the reason this is important, again, is because some of you have the exact same two thoughts.
And the reason these thoughts are important is because thoughts are things, right?
Thoughts matter.
The thoughts that you allow yourself to entertain, and we talk about this sometime, but the Bible talks about in Proverbs that as a man thinks so he is.
In other words, your life is moving in the direction of your most powerful thoughts.
So the thoughts that we allow our mind to dwell on and think about and repeat over and over are impacting the direction that your life is going.
So I want to look at these two thoughts that Moses had, and you just kind of like hanging there with me.
Let me know if this identifies with you in any way, if any of this sounds familiar, but the two thoughts that Moses is having that are robbing him of courage, the first one is this.
What if something goes wrong?
Right, what if something goes wrong?
And it's easy to identify this thought in Moses because the very first thing that he says back to God, when God gives him this moment, this calling that he needs to step into, his very first response, the very first two words that come out of his mouth are, what if?
What if they don't believe me?
What if they think that I didn't actually have a conversation with you in a burning bush, right?
Well, you know,
Honestly, it's kind of a valid what if, right?
But he starts off with what if.
What if should always be an indicator to you that there's a level of fear, and I call it like the initial level of fear.
This is where fear usually first shows up in our life.
It's a fear about something out here.
It's a fear about the circumstances.
It's a fear of, if I step into this moment, if I do this, if I take this job, if I go into this marriage, if we have kids, blah, blah, blah, blah, right?
If I step into this, something out here is gonna go wrong.
The circumstances, the events, whatever, are not gonna work out the way that I think they're going to work out.
This is the level of fear where it initially takes hold of us, and you can get trapped.
right in that what if loop.
I get trapped in it all the time.
I can be a champion whatever, right?
I can spin off all kinds of like crazy what ifs that not only scare me but scare the people around me because they're like I didn't even think about that possibility, right?
Like I'm really good at finding worst case scenarios in certain situations and some of you are too.
Some of you right now you're spinning off of what if I can't lose weight and what if I never get married and
What if I get married and I can't have kids?
And what if I get married and I'm not good at like the whole marriage thing, all right?
Or what if I have kids and I'm not good at being a parent?
And what if I go to that job interview and they say no, right?
And what if I can't save enough money to send my kids to college one day?
And what if, you know, my boss, has this ever happened to you guys?
You get like a text from your boss or your manager and all it says is, hey, could we meet tomorrow at 10 a.m.?
And that's all you need, right?
You are off to the races with the what-ifs, right?
What if I did something wrong?
What if they're gonna fire me?
What if, you know, like it just starts, and what's worse is when you say like, okay, yeah, what is this about?
And then you see those three little bubbles, like underneath that, like they're thinking, and then the bubbles disappear, and they don't say anything.
Like that's the word.
Like now you're, again, you're the champion whatever, right?
Of all the things that could go wrong.
Here's the flip to what-if.
And this is a fun little trick that my wife and I kind of play on each other when one of the two of us gets stuck in that what-if loop.
This week it was her.
So a couple years ago when we had our daughter, she decided to kind of leave her corporate job and stay at home with her daughter.
And now she's, you know, she still wants to stay at home with her daughter, but she's at a place now where she's like, I want to kind of start this new business.
I want to go back in the corporate world, but I want to kind of do my own thing.
And so she's been working on that and creating her website and all that.
But this week,
She's been stuck in the what ifs, right?
What if I don't get any clients and what if I can't do a good job for my clients and what if, like what if, and the little flip, the little trick is we'll look each other in our eyes and this case, this week, it was me saying it to her.
It's like, hey, what if it all works out, right?
That's the flip, right?
What if it all works out because the vast majority of time in our lives, guess what?
It's all worked out.
Right?
So what if for you it all works out?
Because the vast majority of time it has.
What if it all works out?
What if you do lose the weight?
What if you are able to have kids?
Right?
What if you do get the job?
What if you step into that new opportunity and it's even better than you imagined?
Because so many times in your life it has.
So what if it all works out?
Will it all work out for you?
No, it's not.
No, it's not all going to work out for you.
And that's OK, right?
Because you are not going to be any worse off.
Because spinning off worst-case scenarios has never actually protected you from your worst fears.
Not a single time.
It's a lie.
It's a deception.
You think you're somehow protecting yourself.
That's what your mind's trying to do when it's spinning off all these what-ifs.
Your mind's saying, hey, be careful.
This could happen.
That could happen.
I don't want you to embarrass yourself.
I don't want you to have to go through pain.
I don't want you to have to go through rejection.
It's trying to protect you, but it's playing a trick on you because it never works out that way.
you're just introducing yourself to becoming a slave of the mental torture over something that probably will never come to fruition.
Now, what I think is interesting, you got to look real carefully in this text, but there's a clue here from Moses and his fear.
And if you notice his initial fear when he says, what if they don't believe me?
Notice he's not doubting God, at least not directly.
I think he kind of knows better in this moment than to do that, right?
He's not saying, you know, God, what if you can't do this?
And what if you don't have enough plagues to change the Egyptians' minds?
And what if you run out of strength?
Or God, what if you run out of miracles?
No, his fear's directed in another direction.
And if you see it, he says, what if they don't believe me?
Now, who's the they?
In this case, it's his own people.
It's the Hebrews.
It's the Israelites.
Right, that's who he's afraid of.
He's afraid of how they're gonna react.
Who's he doubting?
The Hebrews.
But who is he supposed to help?
Who is it that he's absolutely passionate about protecting?
The Hebrews.
And so this is a really interesting thing.
You gotta pay attention to this.
The thing that you're afraid of is often a clue to the thing that you're assigned to.
The thing that you're afraid of
is often the clue to the thing that you're actually assigned to.
In other words, fear is often a mask for passion.
So anytime somebody's talking to me about their fears, I'm so afraid of this and what if this happens, what if that happens, I start listening real intently because I know underneath all that fear, there's actually passion.
There's some kind of calling, there's some kind of like moment of courage that they need because they're talking about something that deeply matters to them.
Fear is most often going to arise around the things that you're called to, the things that matter to you, the things that you're passionate about.
And I see this in my own life.
If I follow my fear, the reality is my fear is almost like a compass, right, to what it is I'm passionate about.
So I'll give you an example from my own life that a lot of you would never be aware of.
So I don't take myself very seriously.
You guys have probably figured that out by now.
But I do take my calling very serious.
And I take this moment and what I get to do in this moment extremely serious.
I spend a lot of time praying and preparing for a lot of different reasons.
But for one reason, I'm like, people come to church and they're like giving of their most important resource time to be here.
to worship together, to hear God's word, to be challenged, to become more like Jesus.
And I take that so serious, right?
But because I'm passionate about it, because there's a calling there, there's also a tremendous amount of fear that happens in my life.
Do you know when the last time is I felt extremely fearful?
It was 10 minutes ago, and I'll show you exactly where I was.
There's this room back here, they call it backstage.
And if you, I don't know if you've ever been back there, I'm gonna take you back there right now.
Go back here.
There's people back here.
Are y'all playing cards or what?
No, okay.
So this is backstage and this is where I stand before they push me out there, right?
And when I'm standing here, first of all, I wait until the last possible second to walk back here.
Like usually people are panicked like, where is he?
Well, I'm gonna wait until that last minute, until they drag me back here to stand here,
Because in this moment, I feel a tremendous amount of fear, like borderline panic attacks.
I was trying earlier to explain to somebody what it feels like when I'm back here, but it feels like I'm in a car at a red light, and I have the gas pedal pressed all the way down, and at the same time I have the brake pedal also pressed all the way down.
Right?
So it's this anxiousness like I'm ready to go, but then it breaks all the way down because I don't want to go.
That's the feeling that kind of comes up inside of me.
And in those two minutes standing back here, oh my gosh, the what ifs, like they start pretty simple like, well, what if my zipper's down?
Or what if my...
You know, my shoe's untied.
Or what if I go out there and completely forget what I'm talking about, which is possible, Pete, because you lost your car keys three times this morning before you left.
Like, you could do that, right?
What if you go out there and you say something stupid and go off script and you get canceled?
Like, what if that happens?
Or what if you go out there and it just doesn't connect and they don't get it or they don't understand it?
And you know, what if all that work is for nothing?
What if you screw this up?
All these what ifs.
It's paralyzing to me.
And then something happens.
Back here, they open up this curtain and I walk out here and I still feel like in this moment when I'm walking out, I still feel pretty anxious.
Like, is there somebody else that could do this?
Like, I'll give you my notes.
I'm sure you can nail this, right?
But it's panicked, but it's like two likes.
I'm out here, right?
So I just keep walking.
And the moment that I get right here, and this has happened for me hundreds of times,
When moment I step from what if into what is, in that moment, all the fear and anxiety just disappear like that.
Every single time, right?
But what has to happen is I have to work through those what ifs.
I have to push past that.
Right?
And knowing that any one of those scenarios actually is possible.
But I have to push through the what ifs and step into what is for all that to disappear.
Right?
To be used by God.
To allow His strength to support where I might be weak.
I have to go through the what ifs to get to the what is.
Right?
And the reason that this is important is because I want you to understand that the fears that you have right now in your life
None of your fears are actually in this present moment.
None of them.
All the fears that you have are fears about the future.
What you think could happen in five minutes or in five days or in five years.
That's where the fear is.
It's not in the present.
And so you have Moses that's standing here in front of a burning bush that's not burning up, right?
Like the God of the universe is talking to him.
I've got to think this is a really special moment for him.
Right?
Of all moments in your life, to want to be fully present, I would think it would be the moment the God, the God of the universe is talking to you through a burning bush.
But is Moses really present?
No.
And we see that from his very first statement.
He says, what if they, and instantly he leaves what is and he goes to what if.
And I'm telling you, the land of what if will eat you alive.
He misses staying in the moment with what is.
But God in his graciousness, if you notice God's response, God's moving him, transitioning him from what if back to what is.
You might have missed it, but we just read that in those two verses, right?
We read this.
Moses' answer was, what is it?
What if, right?
God in the very next verse, when he responds to him, starts with what is?
He's shifting him from the what-ifs to what-is.
And he says, Moses, what's in your hand?
So in that moment, boom, Moses is right back into the present.
Oh, I'm holding the staff.
I'm holding the staff.
Like, this is what I do now, God.
I'm a shepherd.
Like, it's not impressive.
No, he's impressed by it.
I walk around with the staff and I twirl it and hit sheep with it or whatever you do with the staff when you're a shepherd, right?
Like, this is just, it's pretty common.
ordinary and God's like, oh, really?
It's common and ordinary?
Take that staff and throw it on the ground.
And Moses takes the staff and he throws it on the ground, and that's when it turns into a snake, right?
And it's if God is saying, let me show you.
Let me just show you, Moses, the kind of extraordinary things I can do with something that may seem ordinary and unimpressive to you.
God wants Moses to know that in that moment,
He has in his hands everything that he needs for what God is gonna lead him to in the future.
And part of the reason I think you're here today, and it's not by accident, by the way, right?
You could be in a lot of different places right now, but you're sitting right here, you're watching this online right now in this moment.
Part of what I think God's trying to say to you is, hey, what you have in your hand, your connections, your resources, as little as you might think they are,
Your gifts, your abilities, your intellect, all the things he's placed into your life, your family, all of it.
Everything you have today is enough for what I'm going to call you to do in the future.
You just got to trust me.
Got much Moses to know, and he wants all of us to know.
You've got everything that you need.
And if you think about Moses' story, that moment was such a cool moment.
What is that in your hand?
It's a staff.
But what is it that God uses throughout Moses' life?
What was it that God used to bring about the plagues that would change Pharaoh's mind?
It was Moses' staff.
What is it that God used when they came to the Red Sea and it looked like the enemy was closing in behind them?
What is it that God used to part the Red Sea?
Moses' staff.
When Israelites were thirsty and I thought they were gonna die of thirst, what is it that God used to bring water out of a rock?
It was Moses' staff.
Moses, you got everything you need.
For everything I'm gonna call you to in the future, and I will take what looks common, and what looks normal, and what looks unimpressive, and I'm gonna do extraordinary things to you, but you gotta trust me.
Now, part of Moses's problem in this moment, and part of the problem that some of you are facing right now, whatever intersection you're at, is you're confusing courage and confidence.
Moses has no confidence at this stage of his life, and that's no surprise, right?
Given the current set of events that have happened up to this point,
He has no confidence.
So because he has no confidence, he doesn't think he can step into that moment of courage.
Some of you have been waiting around for a long time to feel confident before you step into your moment.
But you have to understand confidence is not a prerequisite, right?
In fact, confidence is something that comes on the back end, right?
To go back to my little illustration of standing backstage, I never feel confident when that curtain opens, not at all.
I don't need confidence in that moment.
Confidence may come later, may come after the fact.
If I step in with courage and allow God to use me, there might be a little bit of confidence on the other side of it, maybe.
But confidence is not a prerequisite.
You don't wait until you feel confident.
If you feel confident, you wouldn't need the courage.
You act on the courage and you allow the confidence to come on the back end.
But Moses, like a lot of you right now, he's still not convinced.
So he keeps going.
So he says this back to God.
Pardon your servant, Lord.
I have never been eloquent, neither in the past nor since you've spoken to your servant.
I am slow of speech and tongue.
And the Lord said to him, who gave human beings their mouths?
Who makes them deferemute?
Who gives them sight or makes them blind?
Is it not I, the Lord?
Now go.
I will help you speak and I will teach you what to say.
I love this interaction because God's so cool like this.
It's more about what he doesn't say here than what he does say, right?
Because what does he not say?
He's not like, oh, Moses, no, dude, you're good.
You're good.
You're good at talking.
Like, you're great.
You're a great communicator, buddy.
Just step out there.
Like, you got this, you know?
Like, he doesn't say that, right?
He never is like, oh, you totally got to it.
He's like, what's he say?
He says, hey, who gave you the gifts and the abilities that you have?
Was it not I?
I'm with you.
I'll help you.
All right, you think that your gifts and your abilities in the stage that are at right now is as far as it's gonna go, do you not believe that I can step into your life at any moment and exponentially increase those gifts and those abilities that I originally gave you?
See, here's the second thought that Moses has and this is the thought that some of you are having right now.
And the second thought was, I'm just not qualified.
I'm not qualified.
Now, this is a deeper level of fear, right?
Level one fear is fear about this out here.
Something circumstantially could go wrong.
Level two fear is a deeper, darker fear because the fear is not about what might happen out there.
The fear is internal and it's about who you are.
It's a fear about you're not qualified.
It's a fear about you've got too much junk in your past that you can't get over.
Nobody else will let you get over it.
It's a fear about your gifts and your abilities and your inadequacies and your weaknesses.
And it's a much deeper level of fear because it's not just something might go wrong.
It's I think I'm wrong.
I'm not the right person.
I can't do this, right?
Who am I?
Have you ever felt that?
I'm sure you have.
I've felt it so many times in my life.
It's like I've got too many weaknesses.
I've got too much stuff in my past.
I'm not good enough, right?
That's everything that's going on for Moses.
But how does God respond?
Again, it responds with the question.
It says, who gives human beings their mouths or their speech or their sight?
Is it not I?
In other words,
Who makes people who they are?
Who's in charge of everything that they have, right?
Who's strength really matters in this moment?
Is it your strength or is it my strength?
So with the original fear, God comes to Moses and says, I'm going to shift you from what if to what is?
And that's going to be a powerful transition and moment for you.
And in that second level of fear, he says, I'm going to shift you from thinking about who you're not to reflecting on who I am.
Because as you move forward, encourage in this moment, it's actually not about your strengths and abilities, although I've given you those things.
It's about what I'm going to do through those strengths and abilities.
It's about the fact that you're not going alone, because I'm going to be with you.
And I think one of the reasons that you and I struggle so much with fear throughout our life, because we believe in some way that the quality of our future is directly tied to the quality of our gifts and our abilities and our discernment
Right?
We think it's about us.
But God has never been impressed with human strength.
God's never been impressed with our gifts and our abilities even though he's the one that gave him to us.
Right?
This is a God who again and again shows up and he shines brightest where it's needed the most.
But Moses just can't see it in this moment.
He's stuck and it's one excuse after another.
Moses looks at his past
Right, Moses is looking at all of his weaknesses, all of his limitations, and he sees this path, like it's clear, God's made the path clear.
This is what I want you to do, Moses, walk this path, I'm gonna use you in a mighty way.
But he sees his past and his weaknesses and all this stuff, almost like this giant boulder that's standing in the way, that's keeping him from moving forward.
That's how he views all these things.
One of my favorite quotes is from a Roman emperor,
Marcus Aurelius, and he says this, what stands in the way becomes the way.
I've always loved that quote.
What stands in a way becomes the way.
In other words, that thing that you think is holding you back, that thing that you think is blocking you from living out whatever life it is that God has for you, your past, your weaknesses, your limitations, all that stuff.
Like what if, right, the obstacle was the way?
What if it's not a setback?
What if it's a set up, right?
What if Moses could have just seen everything that had happened up in his past up to that moment?
And his lack of strength, his lack of gifts, his lack of abilities, all of that.
That wasn't a setback.
That's how he viewed it.
It wasn't a setback.
It was a set up.
He was perfectly positioned to be used by God.
But it takes a tremendous amount of courage
to look at what's standing in your way as the way.
But I bet it is.
I bet it is because unless we're exposed to difficulties and stresses and adversity and situations that we never want to be in, we cannot become fully the person that we're capable of becoming.
We need those.
And as much as I don't like to admit that I feel like I'm having a panic attack,
for two minutes when I'm standing backstage, I actually need that.
I need that because what happens is I get broken to a place where I am like putty in God's hands, right?
I am desperate.
I need him in that moment and it's part of that process, right?
What if the obstacle was the way?
One of the most common questions that people ask me and they ask it in lots of different ways, but they'll ask, when do I know that I'm ready?
Like when do I know that I'm ready to trust God and step into that moment?
Like when do I know I'm ready to leave my comfort zone?
And the truth about me and the truth about you is that we're actually never gonna feel ready.
You're never gonna be ready for the most important and the most challenging moments of your life.
You're never gonna feel ready.
The good news is God loves using people who aren't ready.
He loves it.
That's really all they has to work with.
Think about the Bible.
Think about all the stories you've grown up learning in the Bible, or maybe it's kind of new to you, and you're just picking it up and kind of reading through some of these stories.
Like, is there ever a single moment anywhere in the Bible where God comes to somebody with a difficult task, a calling, a moment that they need to step into, and you're like, ooh, pick me.
I got this.
I'm ready.
I'm prayed up.
I've got all the gifts and abilities.
Let's go.
No.
It never happens.
Everybody kind of reluctantly steps into that moment and they don't feel like they're ready.
They don't feel like they're adequate.
And so if you want to make an impact, big or small in your life, you've got to get comfortable with being uncomfortable.
Almost all the growth in your life is going to happen on the other side of your comfort zone.
There's something I've heard pretty much my whole life in church and it's
I love Christians.
I really am one.
Good to know.
I love Christians.
But as Christians, sometimes we say some stupid things, right?
And one of the things that I heard growing up in church my whole life was fear and faith cannot coexist.
I've seen it on t-shirts before, right?
Fear and faith cannot coexist.
That is so stupid.
It really is.
Fear and faith can absolutely
In fact, like they're like these tight-knit cousins inside of my soul, right?
Like fear and faith have always coexisted in my life and more than likely fear and faith have always coexisted in your life, right?
In fact, if you don't have fear, why would you even need faith?
And it's when the fear rises up in your life, that's the moment in which you need faith.
And that's the moment in which the faith kicks in.
And so it's not so much that it's an absence of fear, it's the presence of trust.
In other words, faith doesn't eliminate fear, it overrides it.
So if I go back to my silly little illustration when I'm standing back there, I actually never lose the fear.
It's just my faith in that moment overrides the fear.
And so part of what I wanna help you understand is that inside of every single one of you in this moment,
There is both faith and fear, right?
It's there.
Coexist.
It comes down to what you choose to trust in in that moment.
And I've had plenty, plenty of times in my life where I trusted in the fear.
And this let me down every stinking time, every time, right?
There's not a single moment that I've trusted in the faith and allowed the faith to override the fear that I regret that decision or that moment.
Now it hasn't always worked out the way I thought.
but I've never regretted it, not one single time.
So I don't know what situation you're facing.
I don't know what crossroads you might be at.
I don't know what's bringing up fear inside of you.
It might have some do with your kids, might have to do with your marriage, might have to do with your job, career, where you're gonna live.
There's so many things, right, that could bring up some kind of fear inside of you.
I have no idea what it is, but what I do know is this, inside of you right now is both faith and fear.
And you get to choose.
Moses had that choice, right?
And God used Moses in some really cool ways, but Moses constantly struggled with that tension between faith and fear, and many times in his life, he chose to identify with the fear, and every time he did that, it cost him, and it cost him greatly.
And so if you're ever gonna step into this life that God has for you and become everything that you can possibly become, you've got in that moment of tension between fear and faith, say, I'm going to choose
Even though it scares me to death, I'm going to step into this moment.
I'm going to see what God does.
Heavenly Father, we thank You so much for this day, for the opportunity to be here, to worship together, to hear Your Word.
And God, I know, I know that in this moment there are hundreds of people in this room and watching online who are struggling with fear in some part of their life.
And again, maybe it's a relationship thing or a finance thing or a vocational thing.
I have no idea.
But what I do know is that today God is trying to shift our minds.
He's trying to change up the story that we've been telling ourselves.
Because if we can change up the story, we've been telling ourselves everything in front of us will happen with so much more ease.
And some people are stuck in the water fluke.
And today, God, you're just trying to nudge them a little bit.
You're trying to rewrite that story a little bit and move them from what if to what is.
Because when we step into what is, oh, so many of those fears just kind of disappear.
You're trying to drag them into what is, to try to point out to them what it is that is actually in their hand right now.
What gifts, abilities, strengths, passions, intellect.
gifts, abilities that they have right now and remind us that everything that we have is enough.
It's sufficient for whatever it is you're calling us to do in our future.
Some people are stuck in this loop of thinking that they're not enough and they're not qualified.
And today you're just trying to shift them a little bit from being so focused on what they don't have to focus on what you do have and who you are.
It's just reminded that we're never gonna be ready for the most difficult moments of our life.
It's okay.
Because every difficult moment we step into, we're not stepping into it alone, for you are with us.
God, we are so thankful for you.
We're thankful for your son, Jesus, who died on the cross, who resurrected three days later, defeating death for all of us.
So if we choose to put our faith and our trust in you, we're forgiven of our sins.
God, I pray today because I think there's a lot of us who have been set free, right?
We've been forgiven of our sins.
We've been set free from the penalty of death.
But even though we've been set free, we still don't know what it looks like to live free.
And I pray that today will be a step closer to learning what it means to live free, not just be set free.
To live a life where we're dependent on you and what it is that you can do innocent through us because we don't want to be a slave to fear.
We need to be reminded today of who we are in you.
For it's in your name that we pray.
Amen.